# Coding-HSG-Project
Group Project submitted by Arben Hasanaj for the "7,789 | 8,789: Skills: Programming with Advanced Computer Languages" course in the fall semester 2018 at the University of St. Gallen.

I chose to do Machine Learning with Python using the well-known MNIST dataset of hand-written digits from LeCun/Cortes/Burges (http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/). Thereby, I closely followed the tutorial provided by Karlijn Willems on the 3rd of January, 2017, on datacamp.com (https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/machine-learning-python). There, she shows, using a different digits dataset, how to analyze and visualize the input data, adopt dimension reduction techniques, implement a K-Means Clustering model to predict the digits, and finally employ a different type of model, a Support Vector Machines classifier, to improve drastically the prediciton accuracy. I replicated these steps for the mentioned MNIST dataset. As an add-on, I also decided to fit a Convolutional Neural Net to drive the prediction performance even higher, from 97.3% to 99.5% accuracy on the test set. I had explored such models a little through other tutorials (mostly on Kaggle Learn) and wanted to try them out. In fact, out of own interest, I am now pursuing the course "CS231n: Convolutional Neural Networks for Visual Recognition" from Stanford University, Spring 2017, which is available on YouTube, in order to deep-dive into these kinds of models.

The analysis is split into three distinct files, "1. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) & Clustering", "2. Support Vector Machines (SVM)", and "3. Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)" to keep these different concepts separate which in part rely on different ways of pre-processing . I coded it in Jupyter notebook and uploaded these to the Github.
